1   Topic related stories include- IMF bail-out and U.S. involvement, ripple effect in U.S. and other stock markets, impact on international businesses, impact of citizens of East Asian countries.  
2   This topic includes the allegations about a sexual relationship between Monica Lewinsky and President Clinton and the surrounding, alleged, cover-up. Stories on topic also include any that discuss evidence indicating that there WAS a relationship, Clinton and Lewinsky's depositions, Lewinsky's legal battles, the allegations (which come in June) that Kenneth Starr is leaking information about this "relationship" to the media. Also on topic: Linda Tripp's tape recordings of Lewinsky conversations, allegations that Vernon Jordon and President Clinton provided special job opportunities for Lewinsky, Betty Curry's deposition for Kenneth Starr (this allegedly included information about gifts from Lewinsky and for her, visits by her etc.).
3   Related articles might include those that discuss the process of passing this legislation, the extent to which it is successful in stemming torture, the fact that under the new legislation there will be longer jail terms and civilian rather than military trials. Humanitarians see this is a large step towards minimizing torture tactics in Peru.
4   He decided he would fight this decision, the fight, more than the dismissal, is the target topic. Related stories may be about his lawsuit, the process by which the Navy discovered that he is gay.  
5   Related stories may include stories about the replacement of 6 members of the Philippine Cabinet, most of whom resigned because they want to run in the upcoming elections.  
6   Related stories may include information about why these raids were planned (it is believed that terrorists attacks were being planned at these particular sites) or information about what weapons or information may have been confiscated. The topic is these specific raids, during the weeks around 1.13, NOT all raids. This particular set of raids generated a small media flurry because of the suspicion that they were "preventative" in nature.  
7   Stories on topic include his negotiations with Beruit and other countries about use of air space, his difficulty with his heater, and other technical problems, and the failure of the flight.  
8   This topic includes all stories about the legal case and its outcomes, information about how the Americans with Disabilities Act relates to Casey and his case and the PGA's position on the suit. There was extensive debate about this, including discussion of the competitive nature of walking the course. Articles that discuss this debate are on topic.  
9   Her whole case is on topic. Also topic related are stories about how she was the second women ever to be executed in the state of Texas, stories about her conversion to Christianity, her recovery from drug addiction, allegations that her case stirs up controversy because she is a woman.  
10   Topic related stories include those about the fact that the hikers were snow-shoeing above the Orres ski station when they were hit by an avalanche. Also on topic are stories about the fallout of this accident, the search for the victims, any survivors, the parents reactions etc.  
11   These stories may include information about the content of the speech, i.e. the idea of raising minimum wage, the salvation of social security, but still cutting taxes and providing money for initiatives in education and child care are most prominently criticized. They may also include the Republican response to the speech, delivered by Trent Lott.  
12   Topic related articles may include: Fidel Castro gave all state workers the day off to attend the mass, controversy over the visit in general, stories about his meetings with heads of state, the masses he delivered, his travels while there. Also on topic are stories about the reactions of Cubans to his visit.  
13   Related stories about; preparations for the event, athlete's injuries DURING the games, Medal winners, athlete's welcome home etc. This topic only encompasses these particular winter games.  
14   Stories on topic include any about the reasons for the meeting (to discuss economic development in Africa), the plans for the meeting, results of the meeting, IMF involvement.  
15   Related stories may be about the negotiations around the signing of an agreement, the sending of troops oversea, the preparations for an air strike, or the U.N. weapons inspection teams being denied access to particular sites. Also on topic are negotiations between Hussein and other world leaders around levels of access, world reactions to Hussein's refusal to allow the inspections, support for the U.S. in it's threat of action against Iraq.  
16   The two men stole the money from a guard, and were caught and arrested. The topic includes any stories about the crime, the search for the suspects (even the process of identifying the suspects), their arrest, indictment, trials and punishment  
17   Bruce Babbitt will be investigated for alleged misconduct in rejecting a proposal for an Indian Casino. Stories on topic include those about allegations that it appears that members of the group who opposed the casino were also contributors to the Democratic National Fund. There were also allegations that Babbitt may have been misleading in his sworn testimony to the Senate Committee.  
18   The topic includes all aspects of the crime, the bombing, the motivation for it, suspects, arrests, trials etc. As such, stories on this topic include those about a police officer who was killed and a nurse critically wounded from the blast. Also, any stories about how the police were searching for a Mr. Eric Rudolph, whose truck was parked nearby at the time of the blast. The police also received a letter from a group called the Army of God, who claimed responsibility for the act, the same group is being linked to the Olympic Park bombing and others in the south.  
19   A U.S. Marine Fighter Pilot on a training mission crashed into an Italian Cable Car operation at a ski resort. Stories on topic include those about a history of complaints from Italian officials prior to the accident about pilots flying too close to the cables. Also topic related are stories about the victim's families who are threatening legal action, as are Italian Officials, stories about the pilot, and any repercussions for him from this incident.  
20   The flight was from Bali to Taipei, the plane crashed several yards short of the runway and all 196 on board were believed dead. China Airlines had an already sketchy safety record. This crash also killed many people who lived in the residential neighborhood where the plane hit ground. Stories on topic include any investigation into the accident, stories about the victims/their families/the survivors. Also on topic are stories about the ramifications for the Airline.  
21   The tornadoes were both unexpected and very strong, causing several deaths and incredible destruction. They are being blamed on El Nino. Stories about the victims and damage are on topic, as are stories about the warning (or, in this case, a lack of warning) that folks got.  
22   Zamora, a naval midshipman, was involved in the murder plot, as was her lover. After her conviction she attempted suicide and was put under 24 hour prison watch. Her entire case is on topic, the crime, the arrest, the trial and conviction and her response (the suicide attempt).  
23   Since early this year there has been a new wave of terrorism because of both the visit of the delegation from the European Parliament and because the Algerian Prime Minister (Ahmed Ouyahia) proclaimed in a speech that his forces were close to shutting down the insurgency and therefore terrorism. As with other topics about ongoing violence, stories about the occurances, the victims, and the groups involved are all on topic.  
24   Instead of killing the president, bodyguards protecting him were killed. This is the second attempt on Shevardnadze's life. Stories on topic include the search for the assassins, his recovery, the burials for the bodyguards.  
25   As punishment for his crime the teenager's hand was cut off at a high school football field, with a crowd of 10,000 gathered to watch. Authorities wouldn't say what was stolen or it's value. Stories on topic include those about his crime, his arrest, and his reaction to his punishment.  
26   On a show about Mad-Cow disease Oprah vowed never to eat beef again, and the industry sued her. She won the case. Stories on topic include all those about the case (because she's Oprah, the case got extensive coverage), those about the allegations from the cattle industry, the Texas law that made the lawsuit possible, and the outcome.  
27   There were other artifacts in the tomb which gave anthropologists clues about the Pharoah and his village. This is one of only three Pharoah's tomb's ever discovered. It was first uncovered in 1996 but deemed unsound for further investigation. Topic related stories include any about the artifacts found at this particular sight, the archeologists involved and their findings, the technology used to make the tomb safe for further investigation.  
28   LeTourneau was a teacher, he was her student. She was originally given a pretty lenient sentencing and ordered to treatment for sex offenders. She was released from prison in January, but arrested again on February 6 when she was found with her young lover. In mid-March prison officials verified that she is pregnant again, she claims it is his child. All stories about this case, from the discovery of the relationship, the criminal charges brought against her, her first trial, her release, her second arrest and imprisonment and the reasons for it are on topic.  
29   When Buffett disclosed to the media that he was buying more silver (His Berkshire Hathaway Company owns about 20% of world's silver production) it sparked others to follow suit driving the prices way up in a very short period of time. He also purchased the actual metal, not paper representation, which made the story spark more interest than usual. Any stories about Buffett's purchases, his influence on the silver market are topic relevant.  
30   The pension was granted after an emergency bill was passed calling her a heroine of the 20th century. Stories on topic are limite to those about the process by which Argentina granted and allowed for her to receive a pension.  
31   NASA is hoping to collect valuable data about the effects of weightlessness on aging. Glenn is a likely choice because his medical records are already complete and available to NASA. Topic relevant stories include those about the process by which Glenn was chosen, his plans/ training to return to space, NASA's preparations for his flight.  
32   His trial and sentencing were highly publicized. His military record, other than these alleged breaches, was clean. He was convicted of attempted cover-up, but NOT of sexual misconduct.  
33   The Denver Broncos and the Green Bay Packers played, Denver won.  
34   This was the first confirmation of a Surgeon General that passed the senate on first go-round in a long time.  
35   Due largely to the on again off again invitation to Yassar Arafat on his visit to D.C. the director (Reich) was forced to resign.  
36   Lyons had allegedly been using church funds for personal use. He was named head of the National Baptist Convention USA Inc in 1994 (?). His second in command was also arrested.  
37   Giuliani's goal is to civilize NYC. His hope is to achieve the passage of bills that will fine jaywalkers, regulate (better) taxi drivers, cap street noise, and stop littering. He wants New Yorkers to be more polite, but insists he doesn't want to alter the nature of the city. Stories on topic include only those specific to this particular campaign and the legislation Guiliani backs in order to support his idea of New York as it should/could be.  
38  At a minimum, any stories about the search for the ship, treasures found on the ship, false starts in the search should be included in this topic. The rule allows for the inclusion of stories related to the technology used in the search and the names of researchers or scientists involved in this particular search. Some background information: The ship sank three centuries ago, and was part of LaSalle's fleet. It ran aground during his search for the mouth of the Mississippi River. Authorities expect it to contain more artifacts than LaSalle's personal ship did.  
39  According to this rule, at least stories about voter issues around this particular election, campaigns or candidates (parties) competing, and election results (speculated or actual) are all on topic. If any issues arise directly from the elections (i.e. a protest against winning candidates) those would also be related to the topic. India held Parliamentary elections in early March, but early indications were that there would continue to be a Hung Parliament governing the Country. Once they actually counted all the votes, they discovered a winning party, who took power in Mid-March. Please note that in Mid-April and early May when sanctions are set against India as a result of experimental nuclear bombings, these stories are NOT topic relevant to the election process.  
40  The killing, the search for Sheinbein, his arrest warrant &amp; flight to Israel, all negotiations between lawyers and the U.S. and Israeli courts, and his trial and sentencing (should it happen) would be(minimally) topic relevant. Also on topic are articles about his status as a minor (he's 17), stories about the other suspect, a Aaron B. Needle (also 17) who was arrested. Sheinbein fled to Israel and fought extradition. Info on the related article: On March 2, he agreed to return to the U.S. for a trial under the condition that he be allowed to serve his sentence in an Israeli prison. This decision was supported by Israel's Justice Ministry.  
41  The baby was found dead in a hotel dumpster, and the autopsy revealed that he had been born alive. Based on the rule of interpretation, the baby's murder, the decision to arrest the parents; Amy Grossberg and Brian Peterson, their interactions with police and lawyers, the criminal investigation, pleas in exchange for testimony, (eventually both parents will cop a plea in exchange for testimony and information) and the sentencing are all topic relevant. The related article is about how, on March 9 Brian Peterson (baby's father) agreed to plead guilty to manslaughter (and face possibly 10 years in prison) and to testify in court against Grossberg.  
42  The stories about the discovery AND the follow up ("never mind stories") are all topic related. Any stories about the technology used to track the asteroid, or the folks who did the tracking would be on topic. Scientists released the news that we were in the asteroids direct path, and then, a few days later, broke the story that, in fact, the asteroid would pass us by. It is expected in about 30 years, but it is not expected to hit us.  
43  The topic would include any stories about his illness, his legacy, and any obituary-type stories. Since the topic is his death, stories about his life, or his lifestyle are not topic related UNLESS they explicitly mention his illness and death. The publication of the seventh edition of his book "Dr. Spock's Baby and Child Care" is scheduled for this summer, and the publishing companies are discussing commemorative celebrations to coincide with the publications. These stories would also be on topic. The related article discusses the seminal event; Dr. Spock's death on March 16. Dr. Spock was considered by many to be a child care guru. He was 94 when he died.  
44  NOTE!! Getting to a seminal event for this topic was difficult. We debated about the settlement itself, the preceding court cases, the activity around getting to a settlement. Identifying the activity of devising a national settlement seemed comfortable for everyone. Stories relevant to these hearings include the states' attorneys general recommendations, documentation presented to congress (submitted as evidence in these proceedings) indicating that tobacco companies were aware of the dangers of smoking, the various iterations of the settlement before it went before the court, stories about the companies involved in the settlement and any ramifications of the final court decision. This is broader than most topics will be, and the general rule for this activity is toward inclusion, so stories about the cigarette tax hike and the budgetary impact of the settlement or the pay out on the companies are also on topic. The reference article discusses R.J. Reynolds' denial that they would pull out of the settlement proceedings. The denial was published 4/2/98  
45  As an accident, stories about the victim and his companion are relevant, stories about any risk or negligence (either on the part of New Zealand officials or the climber) and stories about the conditions for climbing that day (contributing to his fall...) would all be on topic. The reference article identifies the seminal event: A Czech mountain climber fell to his death (fell 700 meters). They air-lifted the body to Mount Cook Village, 17 hours after the fall. His climbing companion went into shock after watching his friend fall, and then climbing down to his body. The name of the victim was not released until his family was notified, therefore, at the time of this story, his identity was still not public information.  
46  The passing of legislation works similarly to elections. All of Senator Leahy's campaigning or lobbying would be topic relevant, as would the vote to pass the legislation and the implementation (or not) of the new legislation would be on topic. In this case, all stories about how Leahy got this legislation passed, the decision to revoke the status, and anything in-between is relevant. Leahy's motivation was making Vermont eligible for state funded research money. Shortly after the legislation passed, it was revoked, and Champlain went back to being a regular lake. But Vermont will still get some research money.  
47  The discovery of a drug to "cure" impotency. The research on and discovery of the drug expands to topic by including all articles about the drug development, the doctors working on the drug, the FDA's approval process FOR THIS PARTICULAR DRUG, and the impact this drug has on every day life for folks. Many stories in April will talk about Viagra as the Pill of the 90's.  
48  The shooting at the school, the arrest of the boys (13-year-old Mitchell Johnson and 11-year-old Andrew Golden), the investigation, and the trial and sentencing will all be topic relevant. So will discussions about trying these boys as minors or not, the decision about whether or not to try for the death penalty and the struggle around the fact that the alleged murderers are so young. Information from the related story includes: The two boys pulled a fire alarm and as students were leaving the school they fired guns into the crowd. The boys were heavily armed with guns they had stolen from the older one's grandfather. They were arrested. Four female students and a teacher were killed.  
49  Boehner accuses Senator McDermott of publicly disclosing an intercepted conference call between Boehner and Speaker Newt Gingrich and other Republican party leaders. The conversation was accidentally recorded by a Florida couple. At least stories about the taped conversation, the suit, lawyers, the Florida couple who made the tape, and trial outcomes are topic relevant.  
50  Researchers are tracking JJ's path as she is released and re-integrated into the Pacific Ocean. Her release took place on 3/31. As science news the topic includes at least stories about J.J.s abandonment by her mother on a beach on coastal CA., her rescue, her recovery in captivity (she was captive for 14 months), the plans for her release, and the tracking of her progress once she was released. Also, any stories about the technology used to treat her, track her, etc, or the Marine Biologists involved in her case are on topic.  
51  Witnesses identified Wanchalerm Yubamrung as the instigator of the brawl. He surrendered to police on 4/7/98. At a minimum, articles about the victims, the fight, the investigation, Wanchalerm's arrest, trial and punishment are all topic relevant. There are articles linking Wanchalerm to his father, a police captain and leader of the Muanchon Party. These are also topic relevant if his arrest has an impact on his father's political status (consequences of the crime...)  
52  This disruption to Germany's infrastructure is comparable to a situation of ongoing violence (re: rule 6). Germany's public employees are striking as a warning designed to put pressure on the government for higher wages and job security. The strike coincides with public employee contract negotiations. The topic would expand to include at least stories about the reasons for the strike, the strikers, negotiations to get them back to work, the impact on German citizens, any retaliatory actions.  
53  The wife of Congressman Capps, Lois Capps (D) is running against Tom Bordanareau (R). The race is being watched for two reasons. First, it is an indication of how mid-term elections might go. Second, this election has attracted a lot of money for independent campaigns and special interest groups. The topic includes stories about the campaigns, the candidates, the special interest groups funding independent candidates, the voter turnout, and the election results.  
54  As political activity the topic would include stories about her meetings with Chretienne or Axworthy, her negotiations with them, her plans for the trip and her feedback after. Albright went to meet with Prime Minister Jean Chretienne and Foreign Minister Lloyd Axworthy. It is the first official visit by an American Secretary of State in 10 years.  
55  The employees filed a suit alleging that Boeing practiced discriminatory hiring. The topic expands to include stories about the instances of harassment that motivated the suit, the employees filing, Boeing's response, the settlement or trial and results and any immediate ramifications (if Boeing goes under because of the financial stress those stories would also be on topic).  
56  NOTE: Identifying this seminal event was VERY difficult. With input from Jaime, Charles and others, I think the best solution is this one. On March 18, 1998 Ray's lawyer announced that he will not pursue a new trial in the case. Ray is suffering from liver disease and could not take part in a new trial. He is in critical condition in a Nashville prison. Stories about MLK's family requesting a new trial, stories about Ray's input from prison, stories about Ray's death (which happens in April) are NOT on topic, UNLESS they also discuss the claims of innocence.  
57  This topic would include all stories about the championship; stories about competitors, about the event itself, medal winners, and any consequences of the contest (injuries DURING the event, offers to winners for endorsements etc.) The reference article discusses Nicole Bobek's hip injury and decision not to compete. Tara Lupinski also pulled out of competition due to a viral infection, leaving Michelle Kwan as the only U.S. contender.  
58  Guiness ran a spoof press release announcing that the Greenwich group has named them the official beer of the Millennium, and that they would adopt the name Guiness for the duration of this Millennium (up to and including the celebrations). The Financial Times ran the story as if it were true. It's really a story about finances, since Guinness DID agree to sponsor Greenwich Mean Time. Topic includes stories about the sponsorship deal (the REAL one) and ramifications for the Times for running a spoof. Also, Stock Market consequences because of the joke would be topic relevant.  
59  Spring Weekend parties at UCONN, for the 2nd year in a row, resulted in near riots and out of control behavior. 88 people were arrested (about 35 were UCONN students), a couch and car were set on fire. Police face allegations that they over-reacted to the situation, using batons, pepper spray and dogs to quiet things down. Stories about steps the University took to prevent this year's events from escalating would be on topic. Under the rule for Criminal Cases, topic related stories also include those detailing allegations against the students and the police reactions, court cases, punishment (if any) against the students or other defendants and also any repercussions at the University level (suspension or expulsion).  
60  A National Prisoner of War Museum was dedicated in Andersonville, Georgia on 4/9/98. Construction for this museum started in 1996, but Congress had added the site of the Civil War prison (the same grounds as the museum) to the National Park System in 1970. Stories about the construction, the opening exhibits, the dedication ceremonies would all be on topic. Also topic relevant are stories about how the museum was funded - with money from private veterans groups and the federal government.  
61  Tourism for the 1997-1998 year was the worst on record due to reports in the media of violence on the Indian Ocean coast. In response, Kenya Tourist Board is targeting markets in Germany, Britain, Switzerland and Italy with the first major marketing campaign in it's history. Stories on topic include those discussing the types of marketing being done, the response to the campaign (increases in tourism?) and any changes in the campaign or it's target populations.  
62  Nelson Mandela visited Angola to deepen political ties and increase trading. He met with President Jose Eduardo Dos Santos, and reported after that the meetings were successful. this was Mandela's first state visit to Angola. Topic relevant stories include reports about the success of the meetings, plans for the trip, stories about specific meetings during the trip, Mandela's interest in supporting/investing in the rebuilding of Angola's infrastructure, and South Africa investing in Angola's oil sector (these were specific topics of discussion between Mandela and Dos Santos).  
63  Three Americans on a bird watching tour were taken hostage by leftist rebels from the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) in the jungle south of the capital. The related article is about how one of the hostages, Louise Augustine, was released to a government and Red Cross commission on April 24. She is 63 years old and from Chillicothe, IL. Topic related stories include any about the other two hostages, the rebel's motivation for taking this particular group, negotiations with the U.S. or the Red Cross (and any other bureaucracy involved in aiding the hostages) and any stories about efforts to get these folks released and home. Also on topic are stories about the health and well-being of these survivors after release.  
64  Clinton uses the town hall format to initiate discussion about race relations in America. The related article is about the second of these panels, which included sports stars and covered race and professional sports. Topic related stories would include coverage of the other panels or meetings. Responses to these meetings (if they generated any), the topics covered by them, plans made for other meetings in this series would also be topic related.  
65  The Space Shuttle Columbia crew's mission was to conduct neurological research experiments on board. They conducted experiments on themselves and on 2,000 rats and other small mammals to examine the effects of weightlessness on hand-eye coordination. The related article is about the repairs being done on the life support system and the hold put on doing research until the repairs were completed. Stories about the plans for this mission, any research findings from the mission, problems with the repairs (or the initial problem with the life support system), and the success or failure of the mission are all topic related. As an aside, many rats died of maternal neglect, they speculated that the stress of air travel rendered mom incapable of taking care of young. Stories about animal rights activists in response to this are also on topic.  
66  Marcus Allen, Kansas City Chiefs' running back, announced his retirement from the NFL. He plans to become a T.V. analyst. Related stories include any about his plans for retiring, his new job (if/when he gets one), coverage of his last game(s) and his teammates and coaches responses. Also the reactions from his colleagues and any events held in his honor.  
67  A dam at a waste reservoir in Spain broke, and millions of gallons of toxic material headed toward a nature preserve. A dike was built in time to save the preserve. Related stories include those about how or why the break occurred, how the dike was built (what resources, in what time frame), and any reactions (were people evacuated? any government agencies brought in?). Also on topic would be stories about victims, if there were any, and damage to the environment, and any clean up efforts. Due to the number of environmental disasters in Spain this year, we may see articles about stricter regulations which include some information about THIS particular spill. Read these carefully.  
68  An Italian Doctor (Luigi Debella) claims his cocktail will cure any cancer. According to him, it inhibits tumor growth. The related article discusses the protests in Italy because the government refuses to immediately approve the treatment (called the Debella cure). While the medical community is skeptical, the response from cancer patients is overwhelming...they want the government to legalize the treatment and offer it for free. Further tests need to be done, and clinical trials will be completed before approval will happen. Related stories include those about the clinical trials, the responses from the medical community, the doctor's original research and discoveries and the development of the treatment for mass distribution, should that happen. Also on topic are stories about the radio station taking phone calls from people who want this treatment legalized immediately.  
69  President Carter invited more than 500 of his relatives in honor of his great, great, great grandfather's birthday. It was the first Carter family reunion. On topic are stories about the big celebration, the family members who traveled from all over the country to meet their famous relative, people's reactions to realizing the they were related to Carter (one woman hung up on him!) and the town's reaction to hosting such a huge event.  
70  The related article is about the second round of tests, twice as many as in the first round. Clinton's reaction was to impose sanctions immediately. Stories on topic are about the testing, Pakistan's reactions (they begin testing of their own), U.S. reactions (the sanctions, Albright begins meetings with Indian and Pakistani heads of state), other reactions around the world, and reactions of Indian citizens. Also on topic are stories about motivation for testing. This topic begins with the detonation of new weapons in early May, it does not reach back so far as to include the talks of testing from 10 years ago. It is distinct from the topic of the Parliamentary Elections, though it is possible to find stories that link the two events such as; the BJP party regains power, it can forward it's push toward making India a nuclear state, tests begin.  
71  Blair invited Netanyahu and Arafat to London to discuss the remaining issues stalling the peace process. These talks fall apart largely around the issue of West Bank land use. The related article discusses Clinton's hard stand on the talks, and his insistence that the two leaders meet in Washington during the week of 5/11 to continue talks. Related to this topic are stories about Blair's invitation and plans for this meeting, stories about the actual meetings, and stories about the follow up meetings in Washington. NOTE: the limits placed on this topic are the result of extensive debate and speculation among annotators regarding the potential for a "machine gunning" approach which would identify a huge number of stories re: the West Bank land negotiations as on topic. In order to successfully annotate this topic, it needed to be clearly defined and moderately contained.  
72  The tony awards were notable this year because the best director for both a play and a musical were women. First time in history for both awards. The related article is about the nominations. Topic related stories include those which discuss the leading contenders (the Lion King, Ragtime, Cabaret, and The Beauty Queen of Leenan), winners, surprise showings (Freak, John Leguizamo's one man show) all in the context of the awards. Also on topic are stories about the show (Rosie O'Donnell hosted).  
73  The related article discusses the advertising campaign designed to encourage teaching in Chinese in China's public school system. While many advocates of mother-tongue teaching respect the teaching of English, and bilingualism among students, they believe that mother-tongue teaching will result in the best education and the highest level of learning for students. The Advertisement ran in the Sing Tao Daily and the Oriental Daily News on May 11, with signatures from more than 100 educators. The action was initiated by Andrew Tu Hsueh-kwei, principal of the Mu Kuang School. Related stories include any on the above information, and any that discuss reactions to this movement among other educators or parents or students. Also on topic are changes in the curriculum based on this movement, and stories about the motivation for the movement.  
74  The related article discusses an event where protesters were gathered to protest the rule of Suni Abachi, they were attempting to set fire to buildings and cars believed to belong to his supporters. Police were brought in, and they opened fire on the protesters. Seven people were killed and several more were wounded. Topic related stories would include those about the election process whereby Abachi takes power (these are the motivation for the protests and violence), stories about other demonstrations or further violence, stories about the victims of the violence, Abachi's, or other Nigerian ruler's reactions to the violence and the protests.  
75  Welfare reform resulted in many legal immigrants losing their food stamps. New legislation proposes to restore eligibility for children, the elderly and the disabled. It passed largely because it was tacked onto a $1.9 billion agriculture research bill, which was a long time coming. Topic related stories include those about the development of this legislation, how it fares in the House, what ramifications that has at the state level while these benefits are restored (assuming it PASSES the house), the reactions from different advocacy groups or anti-welfare groups.  
76  The related article discusses the U.S. efforts to get nationals OUT of Jakarta for fear of more rioting and violence. The rioters demand is for Suharto to step down, but he doesn't until mid-May. Stories on topic include those about the early student protests, the escalation to violence, Suharto's resignation, victims of the violence, other nations efforts to save their citizens living in Jakarta. Stories about the anti-Chinese violence are not the same topic.  
77  Theodore Kaczynski was arrested for an 18 year string of bombings which killed at least 3 people and injured many others. His identification, search, arrest, plea bargaining, and all legal negotiations are on topic, as are his sentencing, his time in prison etc.  
78  The related article is a brief status report during week 2. The 450,000 strikers have effectively shut down the airport, gas stations have no gas, grocery stores have no groceries. The main sticking point is a 6th week of paid vacation. Topic related stories include any about the negotiations before the strike, the decision to strike, the ramifications of the strike. Also, any results, was it effective (did they get their 6th week?), were their job losses?  
79  Mr. Birdal was shot by 2 armed men who requested a meeting with him. His secretary witnessed the shooting, and within the week 5 men (one allegedly a soldier) were arrested. He was shot in the chest, the shoulder and the leg, and was hospitalized and in critical condition. The shooting sparked protests all over Turkey. Birdal is a defender of Kurds, and the State accuses him of being affiliated with the Kurdish Worker Party, the PKK. He denies that allegation. Stories on topic include any about the shooting, his survival/condition, the arrest of the gunmen, their motivation/affiliations, their trials/sentencing etc. Also on topic are stories about world-wide reactions to this shooting.  
80  Ethiopia hosted its first international human rights conference. They also set up an internal human rights commission and ombudsman. Independent international agencies like Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch were not invited to the conference, nor were local human rights organizations. Related stories might include discussions of the preparations for the talks, international commentary about the talks and any resulting proposals or conclusions that developed; as well as commentary from local and international organizations about their exclusion from the talks.  
81  In 1986, supplies of apple juice produced by Odwalla Inc were found to be contaminated with the E.coli 0157:H7 bacteria after several people became ill. On 26th May of this year, Odwalla Inc. settled with five families whose children had become severely ill after ingesting the juices. A federal grand jury is now investigating whether the company committed any criminal violations of food safety laws. On topic could be stories discussing any further details about the case, or families and children involved, as well as further developments in the criminal investigation. Details about the litigation, and the settlement agreement are also on topic. Note that in May there were also a number of reports of people becoming ill after exposure to E.coli in a public swimming pool. Stories which mention the swimming pool incident are not on topic, unless they also mention the Odwalla case.  
82  Five Miami-area abortion clinics were attacked with butyric acid the day after Governor Lawton Chiles vetoed a specialty license plate with an anti-abortion slogan. Butyric acid is a noxious chemical that can cause breathing difficulties and in high concentrations is fatal. The FBI is investigating the attacks, and the possibility of their connection to other butyric acid attacks in the state earlier in the month. On topic stories may include speculation of the motivations for the attacks, claims of responsibility, injuries sustained, the FBI investigation, and possible prosecution efforts against the perpetrators if they are caught.  
83  The 12th World AIDS Conference opened in Geneva, and was attended by international speakers concerned with the continuing spread of the AIDS epidemic. Stories on topic may cover reports on panel discussions, preparations made for the conference, concluding proposals, suggestions and possible actions towards international legislation to address the continuing spread of the virus. Reports that are solely on medical advancements in the fight against aids that bear no linkage to the conference are not on topic.  
84  The seed story discusses the trend toward companies offering generous incentives to keep employees; a necessity given the current low unemployment rates. Stories would be on topic if they discuss incentives companies offer to attract or retain workers. Note that stories about the unemployment rate or the health of the economy, will not be considered to be on topic unless they also discuss incentive plans, and programs.  
85  Carlos Alberto Parreira was fired by the Saudi soccer federation after the team's two losses in it's first two World Cup matches. Parreira formerly coached the Brazillian team to it's 94 World Cup victory. After Saudi Prince Faisal's prediction that his team would defeat the French team, their loss was particularly embarrasing. Parreira was the 8th coach to be fired in four years. On topic stories may include predictions of Saudi victory, reports of their loss (vs. France), the firing, and related stories discussing fan and team reactions to this. General reports about the World Cup are not on topic.  
86  On June 5th, members of the United Auto Workers Union went on strike at a metal stamping factory in Flint, Michigan. The ensuing parts shortages caused closures at GM assembly plants across North America. Stories on topic discuss the strike and its effect on workers and their families, plant shutdowns in Flint and other sites, talks from/between the UAW and GM, commentary, and stories on the resolution.  
87  The Chicago Bulls defeated the Utah Jazz in the NBA finals. This marks the sixth Bull's NBA title in a decade. The championship is decided by whomever wins the best of seven games. On topic stories include reports of the game, individual performances and injuries, interviews and commentary.  
88  Human rights groups have begun to document what they say has been a campaign of assults, gang rapes, and killings of ethnic Chinese women during three days of rioting in Jakarta last month. The anti-Chinese sentiment in Indonesia may have been exacerbated by the current economic and political crisis in Asia. Though they make up less that 4 percent of Indonesia's 200 million people, ethnic Chinese are estimated to hold as much as 70 percent of the country's private wealth, and they are widely resented for this. On topic stories include discrimination and violence against those of Chinese ethnicity, precautions taken by the Chinese population, official reaction to claims of covertly sanctioning this discrimination. Stories on the riots, related to possible ethnic discrimination would be on topic. Stories relating to human rights groups documentation of examples and interpretation of the violence against ethnic Chinese would also be on topic. This topic may cause some head scratching at first. Keep in mind that the economic crisis is not on topic unless the article makes specific mention of anti-Chinese activities in Indonesia, unless the economic activity occurs as a direct result of anti-Chinese discrimination.  
89  An earthquake measuring 6.9 on the Richter scale struck Afghanistan on May 30th, 1998. Hundreds of towns and villages were stuck, resulting in widespread death and devastation. Stories discussing the earthquake, relief and rescue efforts on both the domestic and international level, injuries and suffering from the quake are on topic. Please be advised that there was an earlier earthquake in Afghanistan in February which is a separate event.  
90  In 1997, law was passed in California that allows licensed hospitals to provide a "declaration of paternity" form for the unwed parents of a newborn to sign. This document makes unwed fathers legally responsible for the child. Signing the declaration form is voluntary. The declaration entitles children to the same rights and privileges as children born to married parents, and makes unwed fathers easier to track down should they become "deadbeat dads" (decline responsibility and leave the child and mother without financial support) The document provides the child with legal access to parental medical records, and the noncustodial parents' medical benefits. Several states have adopted the use of this document. Stories discussing cases invoking the use of this law, the developing partnership with clinics, county welfare offices, local vital records offices and courts, and related stories discussing the effects this may have nationally are on topic. The implementation of this law by other states as well as California are on topic if they specifically mention the CA law or the "declaration of paternity" form.  
91  At least a hundred people were killed in Germany's worst post-war train crash. Prior to this crash, the high speed trains were prized for their speed and safety. On topic stories may cover investigations of possible reasons for the crash, reports from and about survivors, and actions taken regarding the safety of the other forty-three high-speed trains currently in service.  
92  The first clinical trials on the drug leptin indicate that it contributes to weight loss in humans. Leptin was discovered three years ago. It is a natural protein produced in fat cells that sends signals to the brain to suppress the desire for food. These trials showed that additional leptin supplements can encourage weight loss in obese individuals. The genetic engineering patents for leptin are being licensed by Amgen Inc. On topic stories may discuss the research on leptin, further clinical trials, FDA approval, effects of the announcement on Amgen stock, and the impact on everyday life that these findings may appear to have.  
93  Over 6000 Telephone workers in Puerto Rico went on strike in order to try and prevent the sale of the government owned Puerto Rico Telephone Co. to a consortium led by the GTE Corp. The sale is part of privatization program initiated by Puerto Rican Gov. Pedro Rossels. There has been heated public opposition to selling what many view with nationalistic pride as a profitable public asset that could compete in an open telecommunications market. Workers also fear massive layoffs from Connecticut-based GTE. Possible on topic stories may cover; the negotiations between GTE and the striking unions, details of the sale, and actions by GTE to address worker concerns.  
94  The Association of American Art Museums pledged that its members would review their collections for art that was illegally taken from their rightful owners by the Nazis and never returned. The Association has encouraged families with potential claims to make further inquiries. Much of the art acquired by museums from dealers and donors has often not had rigorous ownership checks to determine that the works have been obtained legitimately. Possible on topic stories would cover the Association's announcement, the discovery of additional works of looted art because of this measure, new claims on potentially looted artwork, and revisions to rules and regulations regarding background checks by museums resulting from this action as well as commentary on the announcement.  
95  Turkey's top military officials have fired 167 military officers on suspicion of being Islamic militant activists. Turkey is officially a secular state, but has been under pressure to support Islamic teachings in institutions. The military is the most powerful proponent of maintaining a secular state. There have been several actions against what the military considers Islamic radicalism. Possible on topic stories may include: the firings, possible backlash by Islamic groups to the action, stories that may suggest Islamic militant elements in the military, (please show these if you come across them), and reactions by the Islamist Prime Minister, Mesut Yilmaz, who was asked to endorse the firings.  
96  President Clinton is the first sitting U.S. president to visit China since the student protests and aftermath in Tiananmen square in 1989. The meeting between President Clinton and Chinese president Jiang Zemin ended with a 70 minute news conference, carried live on Chinese national television, in which they expressed differing opinons on the nature of personal freedom. Clinton stated that he believed that the Chinese governmental action in the Square was wrong. Jiang Zemin disagreed. On topic stories could include the planning for their meeting, (not just general plans for the trip to China) their discussion, analysis of what they discussed, and the perceived impact of their meeting being televised live.  
97  New York businessman Martin Fogel has received his law degree at the age of 78. He is also an avid collector of wind instruments. On topic stories may discuss Folgel's graduation and plans for his newly acquired credentials as well as his accomplishments leading up to this latest.  
98  The government of the Bahamas sent home 65 Cuban exiles, among them 3 baseball players and their coach, who defected in March. On topic stories may include reports about their reception in Cuba, the decision of the Bahamas to repatriate the exiles and the possible effect of the Bahamian decision on U.S policies towards Cuban exiles seeking asylum here.  
99  Police dicovered and detonated two explosive devices at the airport in Eugene, Oregon, where President Clinton landed. He was on his way to speak at a fund raising event and to deliver the commencement address at Portland State University. The police were tipped off by an anonymous caller. The FBI is investigating the case. On topic stories may discuss; the discovery of the individual who left the devices, any arrests, and possible convictions.  
100  Goldman Sachs is the last privately owned New York bank. On the 13th June, company partners held discussions about whether to have public offerings on the stock market. On topic stories may include - the reasons for going public, share prices, and possible market repercussions.  
